Pepe's role in The Kappa.

Pepe the Frog is a popular Internet meme. A green anthropomorphic frog with a humanoid body, Pepe originated in a comic by Matt Furie called Boy's Club. It became an Internet meme when its popularity steadily grew across Myspace, Gaia Online and 4chan in 2008. By 2015, it had become one of the most popular memes used on 4chan and Tumblr. Different types of Pepe include "Sad Frog", "Smug Frog", and "Angry Pepe". Since 2014, "Rare Pepes" have been posted on the (sarcastic) "meme market" as if they were trading cards.

By 2016, the character's image had been appropriated as a symbol of the controversial alt-right movement. The Anti-Defamation League added certain incarnations of Pepe the Frog to their database of hate symbols in 2016, adding that not all Pepe memes are racist. Since then, Pepe's creator has publicly expressed his dismay at Pepe being used as a hate symbol.

The meme's original use has evolved over time and has many variants, including Sad Frog, Smug Frog, Feels Frog, and "You will never..." Frog.

"Esoteric Kekism", or the Cult of Kek, is a term for the parody-not-really-parody religion of worshipping Pepe the Frog, which sprang from the similarity of the slang term for laughter, "kek," and the name of the ancient Egyptian frog god of darkness, Kek. This deity, in turn, was associated with Pepe the Frog on internet forums. The internet meme has its origin on the internet message forum 4chan and other chans, and the board /pol/ in particular. Kek references are closely associated with Trump and the alt-right.

"Kek" originated as a variation of "lel", itself a variation of "lol" and seems to come from the video game World of Warcraft,[64] or alternatively a Korean onomatopoeia for laughter written as "kekeke". The phrase then became associated with the Egyptian deity of the same name. "Esoteric Kekism" references the "Esoteric Hitlerism" of writer Savitri Devi.

During the 2016 United States presidential election, Kek became associated with alt-right politics. Kek is associated with the occurrence of repeating digits, known as "dubs",[original research?] on 4chan, as if he had the ability to influence reality through internet memes.

Online message boards such as 4chan first noted a similarity between Kek and Pepe. The phrase is widely used and 4chan users see Kek as the "'god' of memes."
